No, I sure don't. I haven't found any positive
responses to that question. Now, often people,
sometimes journalists talk about a military
mentality. Do you think there's a military
mentality, and if so, what is it? I don't really
know about that.
That would be hard for me to really. distinguish
that.
I'm a little lost on that one. I just can't see where
they, I don't see why, how they get that. You've
heard of that term though haven't you? I'm not sure
I have. Yeah I guess, I guess I know what you're
talking about. I might not have heard it called
military mentality. I may have heard it say that
he's got a military way or some such thing, which to
me is not really a fault. It may be an attribute. No,
I'm not saying that at all. Okay, let's move on
then. When you became an A&M graduate officer, Did
you find that the what did you find was the quality
of the officers that graduated?
Especially after you got out in the field. Now do
you mean after I How good was the training here at
A&M for officers? I think a good a good description
of it was what I told you a while ago this colonel
comes back who's not an Aggie and picks vast
majority of Aggies for this particular unit that
he commanded when he was given the selection of who
he wanted to serve in this unit and I think
everywhere that I went the feeling was that the
Aggies were well trained ROTC officers.
In fact, I've heard some remarks, not personally,
but in printed materials and whatnot, of some of
the top men in World War II, the top military
people, that have had most high remarks from A&M
officers. What do you think West Pointers think of
A&M officers? I can tell you what they think. They
don't think very highly of them. They don't? I
mean, it's a jealousy. I think if they were real
sincere, they would tell you that they've made
good officers, but there's a jealousy between the
West Point and the ROTCs, at least that's what I
found. Did you explain this jealousy?
Why are they jealous? Well, one thing I think,
because there's so darn many more of us, and uh well
Aggie officers were down-to-earth officers I
mean I think we had a lot of good common sense and a
lot of the West Pointers were so military oriented
and so so the West Point oriented and all of them I
mean Every one of them are trying their darndest to
get up another one on the ladder. And every
cockeyed thing they do is, I mean, it's headed for
what's in the future for them. And I think the
philosophy of that is even though we always wanted
to excel and get to be higher levels, I think our aim
more was to do a good job and then those things would
take care of themselves. The West Pointer, he
can't think of anything but the darn star. And I
mean, he'll trample you to death to get there.
And their social activities, their whole life is
centered around, you know, Kissing the general's
wife or whatever, you know. Promotion? Yeah,
sure. I mean, that's from morning till night. Now,
there are exceptions, I'm sure, but their general
philosophy is, boy, how high can I get? And I think
the ROTC officer is the only thing about doing a
good job and those things take care of themselves.
Did you know a lot of West Pointers? Yes, I did. I
suppose you have. And how could you compare the
training that they've had versus our training?
Well, all the ones that I saw, of course, their
technical training probably exceeded ours. Your
technical military training? Yes, that's
correct. Their technical... civilian training
or their technical administrative training or
their
day-to-day courses that they took probably were
not to the level of ours but of course the service
academies of course dwell on the military
subjects they did a great deal more military
subjects than ROTC officers so So they've been
exposed to a great deal more. But the general rule
of them, they feel that too. And they want you to
know that too. They don't make any bones about it.
And that's darn near without exception. That is
the ones I've run into. In other words, you think
there's some friction between the A&M men and the
West Point men? There sure were. There was
throughout your career. Yeah. Something that's
real funny, and it's part of the
down-to-earthness that I'm talking about. Of
course, the Aggies have always been known for
their table manners in the mess halls, which are
not according to Emily Post or some of those, and
the West Pointers despise that. Well, you know,
it's not...
It's not the best in the world, but it's part of that
camaraderie and esprit de corps and all this. They
have their own way of doing this sort of thing. When
we first went on active duty, if you used the mess
hall lingo and asked a West Pointer to shoot the
gunwiden or to pass the sandan or whatever, he
would absolutely ignore you. Now, he knew exactly
what you were saying, but they would not only just,
you know, you would think they'd just pass it and
sort of ignore you and all this, but I mean, they
wouldn't pass you anything unless you asked them
to pass the bread or pass the salt and pepper. And
that sort of thing just really put us on different
courses. And when I was first called active duty,
we had out of the hundred officers in this regiment
we had about five west pointers and they were
really with one exception they were just sort of
outcasts we just would not have much to do with them
and it's bad that is a bad situation and we are much
to blame as they are but we were one direction and
they're the other see they're they're you know
just Straight down the line, and of course we, you
know. In other words, you'd say that we're
probably more pragmatic. Is that what we're
grasping for? I guess. Or is that, I don't want to
put words in your mouth. Well, the,
we were always so, so close to each other that that
we you know whatever it took to get along and to help
you fellow man and to to be a down-to-earth person
this is what you're saying and they're instilled
that you know they're they're officers and
gentlemen by an act of congress and yeah
and I think I just never really saw a great deal of
exception to that I mean after they after they got
on up to be generals and whatnot they lost a little
bit of that separation but we used to we used to have
lots of discussion about it and we did it in a
friendly manner but there is a difference a great
difference. Now when you graduated let's talk
about when you graduated did you have did you have
firm aims to go into civilian engineering? Yes. No
thought about going into the military as a
profession?
Uh, there were not, first place, there were not but
very few opportunities at that time. There were
some officers that went in under what they called a
Thomas Nag, which was a one-year program. Yeah.
and many of them ultimately became regular army
but I didn't really have any aspirations for that
at all and I guess with my thinking military might
wonder why but I was interested in getting out and
starting engineering and get on that course. If
there had been numerous Thomason Act
opportunities, it might have been different, but
and I think they took probably the top ROTC
students as far as the military subjects they'd
taken and there was probably a little politics in
it too, I expect. but I really never gave it up. Then
let's start with your academic career. We haven't
even started talking about your academics here at
A&M. We know why you wanted to go into engineering
school and why you came here. What, what some of the
faculty, who are some of the faculty or staff that
had an impact on you? Well there was a Well in the
C.E. department named McNew. McNew. Right. And
there was an old gentleman who was just in the last
year passed away named Sandstedt.
S-A-N-D-S-T-E-D-T
who was a great old gentleman. All the C.E.
students loved him. I had a math professor named
McGee, Roger McGee, that I thought was real
terrific. And of course we got on up into the
structures and hydraulics and this sort of thing.
Fred Benson out there at A&M was a young, I presume
he was a graduate student about the time I was
there. Everybody thought Fred Benson was a fine
teacher. Uh there was an old fellow that uh that ran
the mechanical engineering shops that taught me a
class or two named
Walter Downer that was you know you had people that
you think golly I sure wish I could do that sort of
thing sometime you know. They were that tight?
Yeah and then the man who was head of ME department
at that time uh it's still here in Bryan that taught
me a few classes that you remember you remember
them well like we always thought that they were
interested in teaching you that they were
interested in you you're grasping their subjects
and not not just being there for spend an hour with
you so they were I had a great many of them Had
another one that taught me history. Count
Chigarth. Have you ever heard of him? Yeah.
General Butler was telling me about him. The
clown. Well you know he got his subjects over well
because he remembered him.
and and Jolly he was a Russian actually he was a
immigrant I think he had to get out of some part of
Russia for the Sadie's Island or whatever where he
got the name Count I really don't know but uh
talking holy lords Mr. Hanover
but some of those you know that really I don't know
that that was any attribute they had, but darn you
remember the fellow. You ask him a question that
happened to be wrong, he'd say, Mr. Hanover, where
did you get that answer? Well, I thought I got it out
of the book count. The book's no damn good. throw it
out the window and say, well, you know, it's just
wild, but you learn from it. What
did you think of the quality of education?
Well, I'm not sure that I was evaluating it at that
time. Well, let's say after you got out in the field
of being a professional engineer. I thought it was
pretty darn good. Okay, and you met people from
other engineering schools across the state and
country. That's right. And, you know, I've talked
with a lot of people who've gone to other schools.
You know, what did you do in summer survey? How did
you get along in analytic geometry and this sort of
thing? I think we stacked up very well. I was always
pleased to see how he graduated me
and him. There were a lot of there were a good many
teachers that I had back in those times that that I
thought
knew their subjects well but were a little a little
weak on being able to present it which gosh you're
going to have that any time but then the ones who who
did either I got it well or they put it over well
those are the ones you remember and I had a
chemistry teacher who knew his subject I'm sure
backward and forward But he had a heavy German
brogue, and I had not had any chemistry in high
school. And I knew from the time I'd been in there,
two weeks, that I wasn't gonna pass it.
And he geared his education to those who had had
high school chemistry. and I presume if I had asked
him to spend some extra time with me he probably
would have but a freshman you're reluctant to ask
them to do this sort of thing or at least I sure seem
to be sure and I failed it I knew I was going to fail it
but I stayed in there and I know I learned something
turned right around in the summer and took it again
and made a B out of it but I got a different professor
You know I laid a lot of that failure to
communication. Yeah.
And I've told a lot of people about that over the
years and I was several others that had that same
fellow experienced the same thing I did. Of course
when I was a freshman so they told me they were 60
percent of my freshman class that failed freshman
chemistry and that is too high. Yeah. there's some
problems that ain't all the students yeah but
anyway speaking speaking of the students what do
you think of the quality of the student colleagues
that you have well I thought of course at that time
uh not everybody wanted to go to college and win I'm
sure oh yeah so I guess maybe we had a little cut
above what you would say was just across the board
desire to go to college. And I was, I thought we had
an awfully good group of students. The ones I came
in direct contact with, I made some friends that I
still have today. So, you know, I think we, I think
we did pretty well. I guess, I guess they were a
good, better than average.
Now often, I've heard coming down to Texas A&M that
there's, that this is more than an institution of
higher learning, that it's something special.
What do you think about that? Yeah, I really think
it is. Could you define what it is that's special
about it, about your feelings? Yeah, I think part
of it is the students that go there, and the
relationship that develops when they're there.
and the relationship now I've got to be speaking
from back yonder because we're talking about the
late 30s and I think there was a there was a
relationship between students and the teachers
that was good I think that as I said a while ago these
these folks that that had a keen interest in me They
wanted to see you do what held you up and of course as
I moved up through the years most of my work was in
the CE department and we had people that had been
out in the industry and they were able to tell you
firsthand about construction problems and
financial problems and public relations
problems
production problems and this sort of thing so I
think that that relationship
generated this closeness to the students and then
you know as a snowball rolls it gets bigger and it it
makes itself and I think from way back there This
relationship that the students have and the
former students with the university, I think that
makes it a unique university. I think it's just got
qualities that, at least from back in my family, I
think it's got qualities that stay with you. and
makes you want to meet others that have been there
and when you see one you feel you've really got
something coming
so it's sort of a camaraderie there too that's
right is that what they mean when they talk about
spirit yeah that's right are there other aspects
of this spirit Oh, of course it would have lots of
aspects to it, but I think it's that thing that
this ring is the trademark. You can see an Aggie
across the room, if you've got a ring on you
recognize it and know something about it that you
look for. In fact, every time I meet anybody with a
class ring on, I have to take a look at it. and it
doesn't matter if this whole top's worn off you see
it's an Aggie ring and I don't know they just there
are people that that condemn that aspect saying
you know you're clannish and you're If you're not
an Aggie, you're not any part of the crowd and all
this sort of thing. I guess I can understand why
people say that, but we on the inside feel that it's
great. Okay. To each his own, you know. Right. And
what way do you think that A&M changed your life?
Oh, of course it gave me a degree and put me on the
road to a career that was very satisfying, of
course. It started my military career. It gave me
an appreciation for work because I had a job there
when I needed it to go to school. It taught me the
value of work. It taught me the value of people who
were interested in me. We had a fellow who
supervised student labor out there. His name was
Horsley. And that man treated us like we were his
boys. I mean, he wanted you to work, but he was the
coordinator of all the student labor. And he had
just as much interest in me as he would if I hadn't
been Horsley. And that that just has stayed with me
and here's people that are interested in
students, interested in people getting along,
getting a job, doing something that makes it
available for them to go to school and of course the
some of the professors down there as I say are still
still treasures to me and it just I guess gave me the
platform to spring from. Of course
the academic experiences gave me the it didn't
make me a darn bit better than a man out there who who
had worked and come up through the ranks but it gave
me something an ability to excel and get past that
fellow down the road. When I got out and went to
work, I was put under the supervision of a fellow
who was seven, eight, ten years older than I. Never
had a day of college in his life, didn't graduate
from high school, but he was, he could figure in his
head faster than I could figure on a calculator.
And he ran a survey crew, and he knew a world of the
basics of engineering and he taught them to me. He
learned his through the hard knock school and he
couldn't take a book and work a calculus problem,
he couldn't take a book and work a trigonometry
problem, but he could work any problem he needed to
run a survey crew. But I was put under him and what he
told me to do by George I did. or I would have been out
on the street. And I learned to respect
the grandfather people. I'm talking about the
people who come up here that way. But it wasn't long
until he was under me, and I was directing him, and
he respected that. Because he knew that I had
technical training, I had college training, and
we had no problem. But I started out right under
him. And I think and I saw a number of people who did
not come from A&M that went to work for us put him
under that fella and they thought right off that
that was a degradation of their abilities and
capabilities and they took offense to it and it
didn't last long. now that's there are exceptions
to that too but we learned as I've indicated a time
or two we learned to respect authority and
jurisdiction and when the higher man said you're
working for this fellow that's what he was I didn't
question it but my technical ability and my will to
excel it wasn't long before I moved on. Okay as soon
as you graduated and and then the period before you
went into the service before you were called back
to duty tell me about that occupation. Well I went
to work for the highway department. Okay. As a they
called it a rodman I was just a flunky to the to the
survey crew and we were We were going out and we were
chaining and cutting brush and staking out
highway construction projects and just wanted to
follow the group you know and learn it from the
ground even though I had taken surveys in the
evening. That's right just like putting a
a man on an oil rig who graduated from A&M, you know,
you want him to learn it from the floor up. My boss
said, you're starting at the ground. So I did that
and then after a few months, my boss put me in the
office and I was doing a little plan work because I
could calculate and I could balance dirt and I
could lay grade lines and I could calculate
estimates and this sort of thing. But that's about
as far as I got because I only worked nine months.
and what called the service. So I really just sort
of got in on the ground floor and was able to sort of
establish myself and show him that I wanted to work
and that whatever he gave me to do, I wanted to try to
learn it. And what responsibility he said I was to
take, that was it. Now this is 1940 and the economy
was starting to pick up with the war going on in
Europe. Were there other alternatives besides
the highway, any other alternatives for jobs that
you might have had any opportunities? There were a
good many, I say a good many, there were some
contractors that came to A&M to hire civil
engineers. Several of the steel fabricating
companies wanted engineers. A lot of them working
on defense industries? I presume, and then just
designers, The aircraft industry was beginning
to hire engineers. The highway department had a
standing offer. They would take all the engineers
who graduated from A&M in Texas. Really? Yeah, see
they were, we were, the highway department was
beginning to get monies to expand their
operations after World War II. But we, anybody,
any civil engineer that wanted to go to work for the
highway department when I graduated could go to
work. Why'd you decide on them instead of other
occupations? Because of this thing that I was
telling you before, road work fascinated me.
Yeah, okay, okay. Seeing something done from
nothing to a finished product. Right, right. And I
really never even gave a thought to any other type
of engineering but highway. and I took a good many
elective highway engineering courses so my air
was just headed in that direction. Okay I say let's
continue tomorrow. That's great. Okay.